Hello and welcome to learn my ask you owl with Justin Posey brought to you by KRAD of online school
dot com a little bit about me.
I have known years and web development and my specialization has been in my school LMP HP.
There are other courses available online school dot com and it's a Tauriel.
We're going to go over a basic introduction of mine as to how to install Maia's Cuil server DHV mad
man and Mariscal where change we're going to teach you how to create databases tables how to import
and export information from those tables how to input retrieve and manipulate data with ASCII well and
some more advanced as you take names for those who want to get the most out of the system.
Well let's get started then.
First a quick aside about pronunciation as you can tell I've been calling it my.
Q Well that is the correct pronunciation.
However it is also commonly called sequel.
We hear it called that.
Don't be confused.
It's the same thing.
So what is my ask.
Well my ask you will is a relational database management system for RDBMS.
According to a poll by.
Around 90 percent of the 300 companies polled actively use the systems in their businesses.
So as you can see the RDBMS does play an important role for almost every company Maskey well is one
of the most widely used of the RDBMS in the world according to the same poll Forty one percent of the
companies were using bascule putting it in the top three along with Oracle.
The Microsoft rescue Sarber Sadow that we know it's important.
The next question is just what is a relational database management system.
Let's break it up into two parts.
First the database management system is simply a system designed to allow you to store and retrieve
information from a database.
For example let's say you wanted to store a list of reservations a database management system would
allow you to put that information into a database and it would store for you and keep it available so
that you could retrieve that data at any time.
However you can either pull out what you put in now relational database management system does the same
thing but it uses a particular structure for storing the data called the relational model.
This model allows different pieces of information to connect to each other in a meaningful way.
For example if you look at the image on the right you can see that there are two different sections
of information.
But despite these being stored separately you can per day use a combined section of the information.
This is possible because both sets of information have something in common.
The activity code that commonality is what relates to them and storing the information with those commonalities
is what makes the database relational.
So how does Mayank Who else can retrieve data or uses something called the client server mom.
In this model the database typically resides on a server that is accessed via client through the Internet.
A client can be an interface for direct manipulations such as ph being mad madman or it can even be
a web site application or program which operates behind the scenes.
Now that we know what a client is let's talk about how a clock communicates with the server to do this.
Is this something taught at Escudo where structured query language this language can be used to define
update inquiry the database query is just a time from the set of instructions seems like any language
bascule has a specific set of syntaxes that once sent from the client to the server can then be interpreted
by Maia's well so that it can take the appropriate action on the database.
A quick example of this syntax would be something like.
Select name from person where age equals 21.
We'll get into the actual syntax later in the course but for now that's how it looks and the best part
is that Cuil is used by virtually all relational database systems.
So you can use the same set of instructions no matter what your environment is.
That's it for the introduction and the next video.
We will go over the different types of data that can be stored within Myskina.